The Stroop Color and Word Test (SCWT) is a short test that is widely used in neuropsychological assessment to evaluate the 
executive aspects of attention control, information processing speed, selective attention, cognitive flexibility, 
and executive function in terms of the ability to inhibit a usual response in favor of an unusual response. 
The word–color interference effect corresponds to an experimental paradigm in which 
it is shown that the reading of words printed in a different color is slower than 
the reading of the word or the color naming separately (Strauss, Sherman, & Spreen, 2006). 
The time difference between these cognitive tasks is a measure of the interference generated by 
two stimuli that come into conflict. Golden's version of the SCWT (Golden & Freshwater, 2002; Golden, 2005) was used, and 
it consists of three pages, one of words, another one of colors, and another one of words–colors, 
each of which has 100 items presented in five 20-item columns. The Stroop Color and Word test consists of three sets, 
each set with 100 components randomly presented. 

## Stroop Word
In the page corresponding to words, the words corresponding to the colors “Red,” “Green,” and “Blue” are included, 
printed in black ink. The score is the number of words responded correctly within 45 seconds. 

## Stroop Color
The page corresponding to the colors includes series of four X painted in red, green, and blue. 
The score is the number of elements properly color named.

## Stroop Word-Color
In the page corresponding to words–colors, the words corresponding to the colors “Red,” “Green,” and “Blue” are included, 
but printed in colors that do not correspond to the word (e.g., the word “Red” is printed in blue). The task is to name the ink color, inhibiting the reading of the word, and the score is the number of correctly named elements. 

### Index score
The interference index was calculated following Golden's classic formula (words × colors)/(words + colors) (Golden & Freshwater, 2002) and by means of the formula proposed by Chafetz and Matthews that, from the assumption that the number of words–colors will be determined by the time necessary to suppress the reading of the word plus the time necessary to name the color.
In the scoring method proposed by Golden (1978), the number of items correctly named in 45 s in each conditions is calculated (i.e., W, C, CW). Then the predicted CW score (Pcw) is calculated using the following formula:

`Pcw = (W × C)/(W + C)`


Then, the Pcw value is subtracted from the actual number of items correctly named in the incongruous condition (CW) (i.e., IG = CW − Pcw): this procedure allows to obtain an interference score (IG) based on the performance in both W and C conditions. Thus, a negative IG value represents a pathological ability to inhibit interference, where a lower score means greater difficulty in inhibiting interference.

Chafetz and Matthews (2004) proposed the following modified formula based on Golden’s (1978) method: 

`Pcw = (((216 − words) × colors)/((216 − words) + colors))`


Then, the Pcw value is subtracted from the actual number of items correctly named in the incongruous condition (CW) (i.e., IG = CW − Pcw): this procedure allows to obtain an interference score (IG) based on the performance in both W and C conditions.


### Note: 
IG1 = CW − [(W × C)/(W + C)]
IG2 = CW − [((216- W) x C)  / ((216 – W) + C)]
where IG: interference score; CW: number of items properly named in 45 s in the CW condition; 
W: number of items properly named in 45 s in the W condition; C: number of items properly named in 45 s in the C condition.
